Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
Three steps down, one more to go
and this one final step that we have to do
is the full connection step, which basically consists
of making a classic ANN
composed of some fully-connected layers.
And so why do we need to finish by this?
Well, that's because we managed to convert our input image
into this one-dimensional vector
that contains some informations of the spatial structure
or of some pixel patterns in the image
and now what we have to do, of course,
is to use this input vector as the input layer
of a classic artificial neural network
because a classic artificial neural network,
as we saw it, can be a great classifier
for nonlinear problems.
And since image classifications is a nonlinear problem,
well, it will make a perfect job here to classify the images
and tell if each image is the image of a cat or of a dog.
So right now, since we already have our input layer,
the only thing that we have to do left
is to create a hidden layer,
that is what we call a fully-connected layer.
So we will do that exactly as we did it
when we built our classic artificial neural network
in the previous section.
And then we will need to add the output layer,
just composed of one node
because this is a binary outcome, cat or dog.
And same, we will do it exactly as we did it
in the previous section.
So let's do it.
We are gonna start by adding the hidden layer,
that is, our fully-connected layer.
And so again, we take our classifier, paste,
and then dot, and then we use the add method,
then parenthesis, and then remember what we have to do.
We need to use the Dense function.
That is the function that we use
to add a fully-connected layer.
So parenthesis again,
and now remember what we need to start with.
The first parameter that we need to input here
is output underscore dim, then equals,
and then, and now remember, this outputting parameter
is the number of nodes in the hidden layer.
So now there is this big question again,
how many nodes do we need to input here?
So remember in the previous section we saw
that there was no rule of thumb
to choose a number of nodes in the hidden layer,
but we saw that a common practice
that leads to good results most of the time
is to choose a number of hidden nodes
between the number of input nodes
and the number of output nodes.
So here we have tons of input nodes
because, you know, we built 32 feature maps
and each feature map contains many cells,
so even if then we apply max pooling
to reduce the size of our feature maps
and dividing by two, well then,
when we proceed to flattening to put all the cells
of the feature maps into this one single vector
that is the input layer of our fully-connected layer,
well we end up with a lot of input nodes.
So we are not gonna count all of them right now,
we just know that we shouldn't take a too-small number,
and therefore we are gonna choose here 128.
Remember this choice of numbers results
from experimentation and we need to choose a number
that is not too small to make the classifier a good model
and also not too big to not make it
too highly compute-intensive.
And therefore we need to experiment.
But by experimenting on this outputting parameter,
we realize that a number around 100 is a good choice. `
We could have picked 100, but it is a common practice
to pick a power of two.
So we will go with this 128 hidden nodes
in the hidden layer, and so now let's move on
to the second and last parameter that we need to input
in this Dense function to add this fully-connected layer
as the hidden layer.
And this second parameter is the activation function,
of course, because the nodes in this hidden layer
that we are adding are like neurons
that we need to activate
according to how much they can pass on the signal.
That is, according to how much it is relevant for them
to pass on their contribution to the final vote
of the predicted class.
And as in the previous section,
since this is the hidden layer,
well, the activation function that we'll use
is going to be the rectifier activation function
that is called ReLU.
And that's it.
That adds the fully-connected layer,
that is the hidden layer, in our CNN.
And then the last layer that we need
to add now is the output layer.
And to add this output layer efficiently,
we need to take this line here, copy it,
paste it below, and now we just need to change the value
of output_dim, and the activation function.
Because now we are not using
the rectifier activation function.
To return the probabilities of each class,
now it's going to be the sigmoid function.
Remember this is the sigmoid function
because we have a binary outcome, cats or dog.
And if we had an outcome with more than two categories,
well, we would need to use the softmax activation function.
But here we have a binary outcome,
so it's the sigmoid activation function.
Perfect, all good for the activation function.
And now of course, we must not forget
to change the outputting parameter,
because of course we're not expecting 128 nodes
in the output layer.
We are just expecting one node
that is going to be the predicted probability
of one class, and this class can be the dog or the cat.
So let's replace 128 by one.
Here we go, and now that's done.
We are done with the full connection step.
Because this full connection step only consisted
of adding the fully-connected layer,
that is the hidden layer, and then the output layer
to get the final predictions.
So we are ready.
We can select these two lines here and execute.
And now here we go, the full connection step is done.
And now eventually all our layers were correctly added
to our convolutional neural network.
And so now let's have a quick look at what we created.
Here it is.
That's the beautiful convolutional neural network
that we just built through these four steps.
So now we just need to compile the whole model,
and that's what we'll do in the next tutorial.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.